Skip links Skip to primary navigation Skip to content About Us Who We Are Family Stories Bereavement 2026-2029 Strategic Plan Seize the Moment Advocacy News & Media 24 Society Donor Confidence SCN2A-Related Disorders SCN2A Explained The Genetics of SCN2A SCN2A Spectrum of Autism and Epilepsy SCN2A Comorbidities Clinical Information Learning Portal ICD-10 Code Key Publications Programs & Events Programs Events Calendar EL-PFDD Meeting Family & Professional Conference Blog Caregivers Get Involved Newly Diagnosed Education & Support Clinical Care Centers Bereavement Glossary Resources Channel Tracker App Research How to Participate in Research Research Roadmap and Treatment Pipeline Clinical Trials and Research Opportunities Research Funding Patient-Centered Drug Development Research Network Key Publications Search About Us About Us Who We Are Family Stories Bereavement 2022-2025 Strategic Plan Seize the Moment Advocacy News & Media 24 Society Donor Confidence What is SCN2A? SCN2A-Related Disorders SCN2A Explained The Genetics of SCN2A SCN2A Spectrum of Autism and Epilepsy SCN2A Comorbidities Clinical Information ICD-10 Code Key Publications Glossary Programs & Events Programs & Events Programs Events Calendar EL-PFDD Meeting Family & Professional Conference Caregivers Caregivers Get Involved Newly Diagnosed Education & Support Clinical Care Centers Bereavement Glossary Resources Channel Tracker App Research Research How to Participate in Research Research Roadmap and Treatment Pipeline Clinical Trials and Research Opportunities Research Funding Patient-Centered Drug Development Research Network Key Publications Donate Search Caregivers Get Involved Newly Diagnosed Education & Support Clinical Care Centers Bereavement Glossary Resources Channel Tracker App Caregivers Get Involved Newly Diagnosed Education & Support Clinical Care Centers Bereavement Glossary Resources Channel Tracker App Welcome to The FamilieSCN2A Foundation The global leader in SCN2A-related autism & epilepsy research, advocacy, and community. Discover the difference families make. d o n a t e Families Connected 0 Granted Research $ 0 M Papers Published 0 Countries 0 Conferences Hosted 0 Here you will find the world’s largest SCN2A community and the most complete body of research and information on SCN2A-Related Disorders (SRDs). Most rare diseases do not have a cure. However, recent progress in precision medicine, drug repurposing, and gene therapy are offering hope for treating these types of disorders. Our mission is to accelerate this work. Join the DRAGONFLY Study What are SCN2A-Related Disorders (SRDs)? SCN2A is the name of a gene that is commonly associated with early-onset epilepsy and is a leading monogenetic cause of autism spectrum disorder. SCN2A Genetics SCN2A Epilepsy SCN2A Autism EL-PFDD Meeting We are pleased to announce the FamilieSCN2A Foundation will host an Externally-led Patient-Focused Drug Development (EL-PFDD) meeting on Friday, October 23, 2026. The goal of this public meeting is to share the critical patient voice for future drug development efforts and key stakeholders, including the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Learn More News & Updates Learn More Stay in Touch Join our email list to stay informed about the latest research, clinical trials, community events, advocacy efforts, and all things SCN2A-related. Newsletter Sign-Up Community A decade ago an SCN2A diagnosis meant accepting that you were alone and that no one was even studying it. Today, SRDs are at the forefront of scientific research and supported by a global community. Learn More Newly Diagnosed? You are not alone. Here you will find a caring community and abundant resources on SCN2A-related disorders (SRDs). Whether you have a newborn baby with epilepsy or are an adult with autism, we welcome ALL those with SRDs. We are glad you found us. Start Here The FamilieSCN2A Foundation is a registered 501(c)(3). FEIN 47-3169795 P.O. Box 4260 Gettysburg, PA 17325 info@scn2a.org Contact us Who are we? The FamilieSCN2A Foundation was founded in 2015 by parents of children diagnosed with rare forms of epilepsy and autism as a result of a change in the SCN2A gene. The SCN2A gene helps regulate neuronal excitability, support brain development, and contribute to learning and memory. Changes in the SCN2A gene can cause a range of health issues known as SCN2A-related disorders (SRD). LEARN MORE. Our mission is to accelerate research, build community, and advocate to improve the lives of ALL those affected by SCN2A-Related Disorders (SRD). Subscribe & stay informed! Newsletter sign-up Quick links What is SCN2A? Newly Diagnosed Global Support Group Clinical Information Registry Clinical Trials Get Involved Awareness Day 2/24 Latest News Key Publications Resources Shop the SCN2A store Up for a Challenge? Learn more and register Join the 7th Annual SCN2A Warrior Challenge—our largest community fundraising and awareness event. Walk, run, ride, or choose your own challenge to support the FamilieSCN2A Foundation. Every mile you move, every dollar you raise, and every voice you rally brings us closer to breakthroughs in research, life-changing support programs, and a brighter future for individuals and families affected by SCN2A-related disorders. The information provided on this website is not intended to diagnose or treat any disease or disorder. Full Disclaimer & Privacy Policy. Please direct any medical-related questions to your physician. © 2025 The FamilieSCN2A Foundation. Web Design by LMTD. Loading... ×