Skip to content (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) NEWS EVENTS About KCNQ2 KCNQ2-related disorders KCNQ2 Genetics Q2 Quick Notes Recruiting Research Studies KCNQ2 ICD Codes FAQ In Loving Memory Caregivers Newly Diagnosed KCNQ2 Family Network Research Where To Begin Resources Bi-Annual Summit News & Blog Patient Assistance Grant Find A Doctor Our Stories Providers Clinical Trials Research Review Doctor Registration Research For Researchers Research Resources Grant Program For Caregivers Recruiting Research Studies Biorepository Get Involved Fundraise Ways to Give KCNQ2 Channel Changers Volunteer Awareness Week – March Share Your Story About Us Our Role Our Team Scientific Advisory Board Interns Global Reach Finances Contact Us Donate Our Role The mission of the KCNQ2 Cure Alliance is to empower through education, nurture meaningful connections, and drive innovative research to develop treatments or find a cure for individuals affected by KCNQ2-related disorders. Our Role The mission of the KCNQ2 Cure Alliance is to empower through education, nurture meaningful connections, and drive innovative research to develop treatments or find a cure for individuals affected by KCNQ2-related disorders. Mission & Vision The mission of the KCNQ2 Cure Alliance is to empower through education, nurture meaningful connections, and drive innovative research to develop treatments or find a cure for individuals affected by KCNQ2-related disorders. The vision of the KCNQ2 Cure is a world in which every individual affected by KCNQ2-related disorders, along with their caregivers, researchers, and clinicians, has readily available care, a supportive community, and ample resources. The ultimate aim is to transform the trajectory of this disease, working towards enhanced treatments and, ultimately, the discovery of a cure. About Us KCNQ2 Cure Alliance provides support to those whose loved ones have been diagnosed with KCNQ2-related disorders, while working with medical and scientific experts, biopharmaceutical companies, our scientific advisory board, and our board of directors to advance treatments that could improve the lives of KCNQ2 patients. KCNQ2 Cure Alliance is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization ( EIN #47-1810644 ). All donations are tax-deductible to the extent allowed by law. All donations will receive an acknowledgment letter that serves as a receipt. You can read our privacy policy here . Letter of Determination Financials 2019 990 IRS Statement 2020 990 IRS Statement 2021 990 IRS Statement 2022 990 IRS Statement 2023 990 IRS Statement KCNQ2 Cure is proud to be a Platinum Level Participant on the GuideStar Exchange , demonstrating our commitment to financial transparency. KCNQ2 Cure Alliance EIN# 47-1810644 A 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization Sign up for our Newsletter info@kcnq2cure.org info@kcnq2cure.org (opens in new tab) 3700 Quebec Street Unit 100-118 Denver, CO 80207 Privacy Policy Terms and Condtions (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) ©2026 KCNQ2 Cure Alliance. All Rights Reserved.